Move EIP-712 to Last Call (#5271)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-712.md

---
eip: 712

> title: Ethereum typed structured data hashing and signing

Reviewer: Thank you for being open to it.

Since, IIUC the goal is to have a standardized way of hashing and signing, to avoid everyone re-inventing the wheels, I think it's more crypto-specific than crypto-generalized.

Option 1. *Ethereum typed structured data ~~hashing and~~ signing* (signing alone is likely to imply there will be some form of hashing)
Option 2. `Ethereum typed ~~structured~~ data hashing and signing` (typed usually imply structured)
Option 3. `Ethereum ~~typed~~ structured data hashing and signing` (structured usually imply typed)

> title: Ethereum typed structured data hashing and signing

Reviewer 2: All EIPs are Ethereum Improvement Proposals. Ethereum is redundant in the title.

> 

Reviewer: Yes I am commenting on the latest snapshot to my knowledge.

I know that you've already converted the original 2 lines below "Simple Summary" section to merge with "Abstract". I was proposing the first 2 lines in the new Abstract to be moved to "Motivation"

> 

Author: Got it, it's a good idea.

<img src="https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/assets/eip-712/eth_sign.png?raw=true" style="padding-bottom: 20px; padding-top: 20px" width="60%" />

> Here we outline a scheme to encode data along with its structure which allows it to be displayed to the user for verification when signing. Below is an example of what a user could be shown when signing an EIP-712 message.

Author: It's asking for a link here but it's a self-referential link which I don't think makes sense.

Reviewer 2: Hm, I'll open an issue in the bot to decide how to handle self-references.

For now, maybe:

```suggestion
Here we outline a scheme to encode data along with its structure which allows it to be displayed to the user for verification when signing. Below is an example of what a user could be shown when signing a message according to this proposal.
```

> <img src="https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/assets/eip-712/eth_sign.png?raw=true" style="padding-bottom: 20px; padding-top: 20px" width="60%" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![eth_sign screenshot](../assets/eip-712/eth_sign.png)
```

Similarly, a straightforward implementation is sub-optimal for directed acyclic graphs. A simple recursion through the members can visit the same node twice. Memoization can optimize this.

### Rationale for `domainSeparator`

Since different domains have different needs, an extensible scheme is used where the DApp specifies a `EIP712Domain` struct type and an instance `eip712Domain` which it passes to the user-agent. The user-agent can then apply different verification measures depending on the fields that are there.

> 

Author: (Referring to the line below this one. Couldn't comment directly on it.)

There is a reference and link to "[EIP-719](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/719
)" which doesn't really exist. What would you suggest? @MicahZoltu Any suggestions being the author of that issue?

Reviewer 2: Hm, while I'd recommend waiting for Micah's input, I think you can probably just remove this line. Since it isn't mentioned in the Specification section as a permitted field, this seems like a contradiction anyway.

Reviewer 3: There is no EIP-719, so you can't/shouldn't link to it.  I would *love it* if someone would create an EIP-719 and champion it and push it through to final, but at the moment that isn't happening so removing the line seems like the best course of action.

An example contract can be found in [Example.sol][ex-sol] and an example implementation of signing in JavaScript in [Example.js][ex-js]

[ex-sol]: ../assets/eip-712/Example.sol
[ex-js]: ../assets/eip-712/Example.js

## Security Considerations

### Note on replay attacks

> This standard is only about signing messages and verifying signatures. In many practical applications, signed messages are used to authorize an action, for example an exchange of tokens. It is _very important_ that implementers make sure the application behaves correctly when it sees the same signed message twice. For example, the repeated message should be rejected or the authorized action should be idempotent. How this is implemented is specific to the application and out of scope for this standard.

Reviewer: Since you mentioned the replay attack, it's probably also worthy of mentioning that in many case once a message is signed, they are no guarantee their distribution will be restricted or they delivery will be ensured and confirmed, therefore the applications need to consider such cases to ensure safety.

Author: What do you mean by "restricted distribution"?

Reviewer 4: > What do you mean by "restricted distribution"?

I imagine he means that the signature should be assumed to possibly become public knowledge.

Reviewer: @Pandapip1 is right. Yes, the signer shall expect the signature MAY AND MAY NOT be public knowledge.

An example contract can be found in [Example.sol][ex-sol] and an example implementation of signing in JavaScript in [Example.js][ex-js]

[ex-sol]: ../assets/eip-712/Example.sol
[ex-js]: ../assets/eip-712/Example.js

> 

Reviewer 2: Eep! Just realized this EIP is missing the `Security Considerations` section. It's always mandatory, but for an EIP about signing data, I think it's _especially_ mandatory.

It'd be good to note down concerns about signature reuse/nonces at the very least.

Author: Ok. That's disappointing! I will see what I can whip up.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for taking the time to push this EIP through. I know it can be a gruelling process.

Reviewer 3: @SamWilsn Any idea why EIPW didn't flag this?  I thought this was one of the first checks you implemented?

Reviewer 2: I implemented section order, and no unknown sections. Completely forgot required sections. It's implemented and deployed now.

Still need to do duplicate sections.
